Everything has disadvantages, and Spring is no exception.
Let's take a look at some of the disadvantages of using Spring.
One of the most common disadvantages that you'll hear about
Spring is that Spring is too magical.
You sort of add an annotation here or there and all of a
sudden you magically have a fully-working app,
and this can certainly be a drawback because the reason that something happened,
or the reason that something worked is not always intuitive.
Spring can also have a steep learning curve,
as Spring has been around for a very long time,
learning everything there is to learn about it can be overwhelming.
Spring can also increase the size of your final deliverable,
and in most cases this isn't an issue to be concerned with,
but when it matters,
Spring can be considered to be a bit large and a bit bloated.
Another common disadvantage that you'll hear about
Spring is that it's hard to debug,
and this is true in some senses as Spring hides a lot of details and it
can be hard to troubleshoot when something goes wrong.
You may not even know where to start, or even what went wrong.
Spring also add some additional memory overhead to applications,
meaning that it takes more memory to run.
And in some cases, it's really quite minor,
and in other case, it's more pronounced.
And I should note though that this will be true of any framework.
The complexity of Spring has grown over time.
It started out as a way to reduce complexity,
and it largely accomplishes that, but over time Spring has become complex itself,
and in many ways this is why the Spring Boot project was born.
Spring is sort of configurable to a fault,
and this one falls in line with the complexity that we just talked about.
In Spring there's many knobs and dials you can turn,
and it's very configurable, and with this comes that additional added complexity.
Spring is big, and by that I mean it's not a small framework,
and it's not usually a good solution for problems where you
need to write code to give you a quick result.
Spring was meant to build long-running applications that solve complex problems.
Some of the community projects from Spring can sort of be hit or miss.
Sometimes they're really great and sometimes they just fall short on features.
And just like I mentioned when we were talking about the advantages,
this is by no means a comprehensive list of all of the disadvantages of Spring,
but it should give you a good idea of what are some of the drawbacks, or disadvantages.